arch docs (#13382)
fleetdm/fleet: docs/Contributing/high-level-architecture.md

# High level architecture

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Main System Components](#main-system-components)

## Overview

Add text

## Main System Components

```mermaid
graph LR;
    
    subgraph Development
        fleet_release_owner[Fleet Release<br>Owner];
    end

    subgraph Agent
        orbit[orbit];
        desktop[Fleet Desktop<br>Tray App];
        osqueryd[osqueryd];
        desktop_browser[Fleet Desktop<br> from Browser];
    end

    subgraph Customer Cloud
        fleet_server[Fleet<br>Server];
        db[DB];
        redis[Redis<br>Live queries' results <br>go here];
        prometheus[Prometheus Server];
    end

    subgraph FleetDM Cloud
        tuf["<a href=https://theupdateframework.io/>TUF</a> file server<br>(default: <a href=https://tuf.fleetctl.com>tuf.fleetctl.com</a>)"];
        datadog[DataDog metrics]
        heroku[Usage Analytics<br>Heroku]

>         log[Optional Log Location<br>Store logs here]

Reviewer: does the FleetDM Cloud serve as a log location?  I thought the only option is for customers to provide their own log repository (Splunk).

Author: correct.

    end

    subgraph Customer Admin
        frontend[frontend code]
    end

    fleet_release_owner -- "Release Process" --> tuf;

    orbit -- "Fleet Orbit API (TLS)" --> fleet_server;
    orbit -- "Auto Update (TLS)" --> tuf;
    desktop -- "Fleet Desktop API (TLS)" --> fleet_server;
    osqueryd -- "osquery<br>remote API (TLS)" --> fleet_server;
    desktop_browser -- "My Device API (TLS)" --> fleet_server;

    heroku -- "Metrics from all customers" --> datadog;

    fleet_server <== "Read/Write" ==> db;
    fleet_server <== "Read/Write" ==> redis;
    redis <==> db;

    prometheus ==> fleet_server;
    fleet_server -- "metrics" --> heroku;
    fleet_server -- "queries results" --> log;

    frontend <== "API" ==> fleet_server;

```

> 

Reviewer 2: `frontend` is a bit generic. We have Web GUI, REST API, and `fleetctl`

Author: Fixed

## The path of Live Query

### 1 - IT person initiates the query
```mermaid
graph LR;

>     it_person[IT person<br>Starts a live query];

Reviewer: @zhumo do we refer to customers who log into the Fleet console as "IT Person"?  Just want to make sure we're being consistent with our customer personas

Reviewer 3: Let's go with "Fleet user" to be more generic. IT not the only job function that uses Fleet. If this is not for all Fleet users, but the admins of Fleet, then we would say "Fleet admin"

    osquery -- 2 return results --> server;

    server <-- 1 return queries if found --> dbredis;
    server -- 2 put results in Redis --> dbredis;

```

## The path of a scheduled Query

### 1 - IT person initiates the query
```mermaid
graph LR;
    it_person[IT person<br>Creates a scheduled<br>for a team / global];
    api[API Client Frontend or Fleetctl];

    subgraph Cloud
        server(Server);
        db[DB];
    end

    it_person --> api;
    api --> server;
    server -- Query stored in DB--> db;
```
### 2 - Agent gets config file (with the scheduled query)
```mermaid
graph LR;
    agent[Osquery Agent];

    subgraph Cloud
        server(Server);
        db[DB];
    end

    agent -- request download config file --> server;
    agent <-- teams and global cfg are merged --> server;
    server -- ask for cfg file--> db;
```

### 3 - Agent returns results to be (optionally) logged
```mermaid
graph LR;
    agent[Osquery Agent<br>Runs query and sends results];

    subgraph Cloud
        server(Server);
        log[Optional External Log<br>e.g. S3];
    end

    agent --> server;
    server --> log;
```

## Agent  config options
1 - Config TLS refresh 

> (Typical period10 secs) OSQuery pulls down a config file that includes instructions for Scheduled Queries. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(Typical period 10 secs) OSQuery pulls down a config file that includes instructions for Scheduled Queries. 
```
